> A **_Toeplitz matrix_** is an $n \times n$ matrix $A = (a_{ij})$ such that $a_{ij} = a_{i - 1, j - 1}$ for $i = 2, 3, \dots, n$ and $j = 2, 3, \dots, n$.
>
> **a.** Is the sum of two Toeplitz matrices necessarily Toeplitz? What about the product?
>
> **b.** Describe how to represent a Toeplitz matrix so that you can add two $n \times n$ Toeplitz matrices in $O(n)$ time.
>
> **c.** Give an $O(n\lg n)$-time algorithm for multiplying an $n \times n$ Toeplitz matrix by a vector of length $n$. Use your representation from part (b).
>
> **d.** Give an efficient algorithm for multiplying two $n \times n$ Toeplitz matrices. Analyze its running time.

a. The sum of two Toeplitz matrices is Toeplitz, but the product is not.

b. Let A be a Toeplitz matrix. We can use a vector of length 2n−1 to represent
it, given by: (c0, . . . , c2n−2) = (an,1, an−1,1, . . . , a2,1, a1,1, a1,2, . . . , aa,n). To
add two Toeplitz matrices, simply add their associated vectors.

c. We can interpret this as the multiplication of two polynomials. Specifically,
let P(x) = c0 + c1x + . . . + c2n−1x
2n−2
. Let (b0, b1, . . . , bn−1) be the vector
of length n by which we wish to multiply, and let yk denote the k
th entry
of the vector which results from the multiplication. Let Q(x) = b0x
n−1 +
b1x
n−2+. . .+bn−1. Then the coefficient on x
n−k+n−1
in P(x)Q(x) is given by
Pn−1
i=0 cn−k+ibi =
Pn−1
i=0 ak,ibi = yk. Since we can multiply the polynomials
in O(n lg n) and the needed results are just some of the coefficients, we can
multiply a Toeplitz matrix by an n-vector in O(n lg n).

d. We can view matrix multiplication as simply multiplication by an n vector
carried out n times. If bj is the j
th column of the second matrix, then Abj
is the j
th column of the resulting matrix. By part c, this can be done in
O(n^2lg n) time, which is asymptotically faster than even Strassen’s algorithm.
